---
title: Solidity Chronicles | Code Refactoring [0]
layout: post
date: 2018-11-23 2:09:00 -0400
category: ["seneca"]
---

## A Series of Code refactors

Solidity has released [v0.5.0 of the language.](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases)  

The Solidity repo utilizes its [Github projects](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/projects) really well, and most of the code that I had done before 
was tackling some basic issues that were needed to get the next version out.

Incredibly, I ended up being thanked on the 0.5.0 release. I didn't expect it but it happened. I really enjoy spending time in that repo, everyone is very
intelligent and very kind. 

Now onto the issue.

0.5.1 is the next update, and there's an [issue thats opened up regarding code refactoring.](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/issues/5168) Made up of many sub issues, basically the goal is to enhance the performance of the language and to remove redundancy. Here's one of the sub issues I worked on.

#### **Issue:**  
When a function is declared with an `override` remove the redundant `virtual.`

#### **Side Issues:** 

I'd realized before starting this relatively major refactoring (36 pages changed), that I had screwed up my repository. I had built from source following the Solidity instructions, and I had built my original repo that worked on the three other issues in Powershell on Windows. I had ended up with around 500+ build files that were shown as changes that needed to be added to Git.   

My previous issues were small in size, working mostly in 1 to 2 files, so it wasn't a problem to avoid adding them. The issue came from needing to make sure I properly found and removed every instance of `virtual` partnered with an `override`. Having so many changed files would make it difficult for me to navigate and understand which files I needed to add, and which I didn't. A lot of unecessary clutter.

Here's how you avoid that issue if you are a Windows user. 

> **Important:** run all of these in Command Prompt, _not_ Powershell. 

- Clone the Solidity repo, follow the pre-reqs, run the external dependancies bat as described in [building from source.](https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/v0.5.0/installing-solidity.html#building-from-source)
- `mkdir build` from root of the repo
- `cd build`
- `cmake -G "Visual Studio 15 2017 Win64" ..`
- `cmake --build . --config RelWithDebInfo`
- If you are rebuilding a lot, make sure to rebuild in the build folder, _always_.
- Then run the tests in root folder. `.\build\test\RelWithDebInfo\soltest.exe -- --no-ipc --no-smt`
- The repo will then ignore all the build related files properly.  

----  
<br>  
The next issue I ran into was replacing the redundant statement. I had to remove `virtual` _but only if there was an `override` following it_. Following [cppreference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/virtual), it seemed to not negatively affect the virtual-ness of a function if there was only `override` present. 

> Solidity being a language, you get quite worried about accidentally introducing some unforeseen vulnerability in the language. Especially since it handles real, valuable currency on a daily basis. 

VSCode is the editor I'm using at the moment. `CTRL+SHIFT+F` nets you a repo-wide search and extends to a replace functionality. You can write which files to ignore as well. Now, you can extend this search with a regex toggle which was extremely useful for me working on this issue. 

But there was an unforseen limitation of VSCode's replacement functionality. Let me break down the issue:  

- I used VSCode's regex functionality to find a sentence with `virtual` first and `override` second
- Regex: `virtual.*override`, meaning match any character repeated 0 or more times.
- The functions look like this: `virtual function name blah override;` I want to keep the middle part and remove the virtual
- The replace section does **not** have regex support. Meaning if I do:  
`virtual.*override` | Search  
`.*override` | Replace with  
`virtual function name blah override;` ------Becomes-------> `.*override;`
The regex becomes part of the replacement rather than keeping the middle part and removing the virtual. This happens no matter what.
- Meaning I had to go in manually into every file and do a local search (`Ctrl+F`) and replace by doing:  
`virtual` | Search  
` ` | Replace with (empty)  

That works but I had to manually analyze that the highlighted repo search matches did in fact contain override, which some of them _didn't_.

I believe this could be remedied by adding this functionality to VSCode, because I reckon I'm not the only one who ran into this case before. I also accidentally removed a virtual from an exception that was needed but the maintainers fixed that (thanks).

Anyways, onto the solution.

#### **Solution:**

- CTRL+SHIFT+F in VSCode
- Regex match `virtual.*override`
- Manually go into the matches that pop up and locally replace with emptiness
- Rebuild from source, make sure it compiles, run the tests and throw it up on the repo to run it through the Travis build (in which CodeCov yelled at me).

#### **Benefits:**

- Makes the code look nicer and less need to process the virtual keyword
- Helps speed up to v0.5.1

Happily [merged.](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/pull/5444)